Okay let's continue the perfect
correctness of our greedy algorithm for
minimizing the sum of the weight of
completion times and let's move onto
understanding the ramifications of the
exchange of jobs suggested at the
conclusion of the previous video.
So recall the basic ideas to use this
observation that the optimal schedule
sigma star by virtue of our assumption of
being different from the greedy one has
to have this pair of consecutive jobs
where the earlier one has the higher
index.
So my question for you involves thinking
about how the completion times of all of
the jobs change after we make this
exchange of the two jobs i and j.
Which ones go up?
Which ones go down?
Which ones are unaffected?
Which ones can we not actually predict
whether they go up or down?
All right, so the answer to this, quite
key question is the third answer. Jobs
other than I and J are unaffected, the
completion time of job I goes up, and the
completion time of job J goes down.
So let's review why. Consider a job K,
other than I or J, it's probably easiest
to see if in sigma-star, K completes
before I and J, scheduled earlier than I
and J.
Don't, remember what the completion time
of a job is, it's just the time that
needs to elapse before it gets done, so
it's the sum of the job lengths up to,
and including that job itself.
So if K was scheduled before I and J
before, it's exactly the same after I and
J are swapped.
You don't know the difference.
Exactly the same set of jobs precedes Job
K is the force whose completion time is
the same.
But if you think about it, this exact
same argument is true for jobs K that
succeed INJ.
So before we do the swap, it has to wait
for a bunches ops to complete, including
INJ and after we swap INJ, it still has
to wait for INJ to complete.
Yeah, they complete in opposite order but
who cares?
The amount of time of the lapse is
exactly the same.
So importantly, jobs other than INJ are
completely agnostic to the swap.
Their completion time is exactly the same
as before.
So that's the first.
Part.
so job I, it's completion time goes up.
It's easier to see why it used to be
before J, now it has to wait for J.
In fact we can say exactly how much
completion time goes up by.
It goes up by exactly the length of J.
That is the extra time that now needs to
elapse before I gets completed.
By exactly the same reasoning the
completion time of job j actually drops
it has to wait for the same jobs to
complete before it being accepted no
longer has to wait for job I.
So, not only can we say its completion
time goes down we can say that it goes
down so by precisely the length of job I.
So now we are in a great position to
finish off this proof.
Let's summarize what we got so far.
So, for a cost benefit analysis of
exchanging I and J, we discovered the
cost is limited to an increase in the
completion time of job I and the benefit
is limited to the decrease in the
completion time of job J.
Specifically the cost, the new cost
incurred by the exchange is the weight of
job I times the amount by which it's
completion time went up, namely the
length of job J.
Similarly, the benefit of the exchange is
the drop of LI and J's completion time
and that gets multiplied by it's weight's
of WJ.
So now finally we are at the point where
we can use the fact that this purportedly
optimal schedule sigma star schedules I
and J in some sense incorrectly,
with a higher index job first despite it
having a lower ratio in contrast to the
principles followed by our greedy
algorithm.
So why is it relevant that the earlier
job I has a higher index?
Well, a higher index corresponds to a
lower ratio.
Remember we did this notation switch so
that the first job has the highest ratio,
the second job has the second highest
ratio and so on.
So the bigger your index, the further you
are down in the ordering, the lower your
ratio.
So because I is bugger than J, that means
I's ratio is worse than J.
The usefulness of this becomes even more
apparent when we clear denominators.
We multiply both sides by the, by LI
times LJ.
And then we find that WI times LJ is
strictly less than WJ times LI.
But what are these, these are just the
cost and benefit terms respectively of
our thought experiment exchange,
exchanging I and j.
So what does it mean that the benefit of
the swap outweighs the cost?
It mean if we take sigma star, this
reportedly optimal solution, and we
invert the jobs I and j, we get a
schedule with an even better weighted sum
of completion times, but that is nuts.
That's absurd, sigma star was supposed to
be optimal.
So here's our contradiction.
That completes the proof.